- Some software to serve the HTML/CSS/JS that the site 
consists of; We already have an outline for this using 
Java's "com.sun.net.httpserver.HttpServer" object. Popular 
frameworks such as Rails/Django would fit in this catagory, 
but it seems that the team has more Java experience, and 
such frameworks likely require a nontrivial time investment 
to utilize. Apache likely has some subproject that might 
offer a more featureful middle-ground that might not be too 
heavy.
-- Research Apache projects that serve java code (Tomcat?) (2 days)
-- Make an interface between other backend components and 
    the server (2 weeks? depends on the shape of the rest of 
    the program)

- Some sort of database infrastructure for storing both 
event data and account credentials. I'm not very fluent in 
this area, but I've heard that SQLite is a lightweight 
text-based database that's useful for development (not too 
resource-intensive to quickly spin up for testing), while 
postgresql is a more heavyweight/robust/performant database 
server.
-- Choose a database (1 day)
-- Setup database (10 days)
-- Create event storage mechanism (4 days)

- Crawling/scraping sites to obtain event data is one of 
the necessary components. It'll probably start out as 
manually looking at the structure of a specific site 
(Union's website?), and hard-coding rules for it (regex/DOM 
treewalk/prolog are potential options; DOM treewalk with 
JSOUP is probably the best robustness per cost). At its 
most sophisticated, this may stray into NLP/IE techniques 
to extract event data from arbitrary websites (but that 
falls under the 'bells & whistles' catagory).
-- Make a simple scraper using JSOUP to pull events from 
    union.rpi.edu and store them in the database (1 week)
-- Search for other sites that have relevant events to pull (2 days)

- Account creation/management infrastructure: The 
conventional wisdom is that it's a horrible idea, 
security-wise, to go with a home-made/in-house account 
system, so looking into pre-existing libraries would likely 
be the sanest thing to do, assuming that this is to be a 
serious product. That said, it would be fun to try to 
implement it ourselves out of databases & crypto libraries.
-- Research java account libraries (2 days)
-- Setup the chosen account library, integrate it with the database (1-2 weeks)

- If we end up having a feature to submit events directly, 
some sort of filtering would be nice to remove or 
automatically flag-for-review "spammy"/useless events. One 
machine learning library that was recommended to me is 
called "Weka", although this would also likely be a fun set 
of algorithms to implement.
-- Run some events through an arbitrary machine learning 
    algorithm, once we have events (1 day)
-- If the output looks promising (not too many false 
    positives), integrate the machine learning with the event 
    submission (1 week)
